Newsletters: add 336 (2025-01-10) (#2121)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-01-10-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #336'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/01/10/
name: 2025-01-10-newsletter
slug: 2025-01-10-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Investigating mining pool behavior before fixing a Bitcoin Core bug:**
  Abubakar Sadiq Ismail [posted][ismail double] to Delving Bitcoin about
  a [bug][bitcoin core #21950] discovered in 2021 by Antoine Riard that

>   results in it reserving 2,000 vbytes in block templates for coinbase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  results in the block-builder reserving 2,000 vbytes in block templates for coinbase
```
or "block-building algorithm"

  transactions rather than the intended 1,000 vbytes.  Each template
  could include approximately five additional small transactions if the
  double reservation was eliminated.  However, that could lead to miners
  who depended on the double reservation producing invalid blocks,

>   resulting in a large loss of income.  Ismail analyzed past blocks to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  resulting in a significant loss of income.  Ismail analyzed past blocks to
```

Author: The block reward is typically worth $300,000 to $500,000 USD.  Maybe this is just an indicator that my stack isn't big enough, but I still think a half-mil qualifies as large.  :smile:

>   attempt to determine which mining pools might be at risk.  He noted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  determine which mining pools might be at risk.  He noted
```

  Ocean.xyz and F2Pool are apparently using non-default settings; he also
  found an unknown pool or miner creating large coinbase transactions

>   that could be a problem if the Bitcoin Core bug is fixed.  We ask

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that could be problematic if the Bitcoin Core bug is fixed.  We ask
```

  anyone who knows the unknown miner to alert them to the situation.

  Jay Beddict [relayed][beddict double] the message to the Mining-Dev
  mailing list.

- **Contract-level relative timelocks:** Gregory Sanders
  [posted][sanders clrt] to Delving Bitcoin about finding a solution for
  a complication he discovered about a year ago (see [Newsletter
  #284][news284 deltas]) when creating a proof-of-concept implementation
  of [LN-Symmetry][topic eltoo].  In that protocol, each channel state

>   can be confirmed onchain but only the last state confirmed before a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can be confirmed onchain, but only the last state confirmed before a
```

>   deadline is able to spend the channel funds.  Usually, the parties to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  deadline can spend the channel funds.  Usually, the parties to
```

  a channel would only attempt to confirm the latest state; however, if
  Alice initiates a new state update by partially signing a transaction
  and sending it to Bob, only Bob can complete that transaction.  If Bob
  stalls at that point, Alice can only close a channel in its
  penultimate state.  If Bob waits until Alice's penultimate state has
  almost reached its deadline and then gets the last state confirmed, it
  will take approximately twice as long as the deadline for the channel

>   to resolve, called the (_2x delay problem_).  That means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to resolve, called the _2x delay problem_.  That means
```

  [timelocks][topic timelocks] for [HTLCs][topic htlc] in LN-Symmetry
  must be up to twice as long, which makes it easier for attackers to
  prevent forwarding nodes from earning income on their capital (through
  [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming attacks] and other
  problems).

  Sanders suggests solving the problem with a relative timelock that

>   would apply to all transactions required to settle a contract.  In

Reviewer 2: s/In/If/ ? 

```suggestion
  would apply to all transactions required to settle a contract.  If
```

  LN-Symmetry had such a feature and Alice got the penultimate state
  confirmed, Bob would need to get the last state confirmed before the
  deadline of the penultimate state.  In a [later post][sanders tpp],
  Sanders links to a channel protocol by John Law (see [Newsletter
  #244][news244 tpp]) that uses two transaction-level relative timelocks
  to provide a contract-level relative timelock without consensus
  changes.  However, that doesn't work for LN-Symmetry which allows each
  state to spend from any previous state.

>   Sanders sketches a solution, but notes that it has problems.  He also

Reviewer 2: perhaps s/problems/issues/ to avoid conflating with "the problem" in the next sentence

Reviewer: Agree, or I'd prefer "drawbacks".

  notes how the problem could be solved using Chia's `coinid` feature,
  which appears to be similar to John Law's 2021 idea for Inherited
  Identifiers (IIDs).  Jeremy Rubin [replied][rubin muon] with a link to
  his proposal last year for _muon_ outputs that must be spent in the
  same block as the transaction that created them, showing how they
  could contribute to a solution.  Sanders mentions, and Anthony Towns
  [expands][towns coinid] on, the `coinid` feature from the Chia

>   blockchain, showing how it could reduce the amount of data required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  blockchain, showing how it could reduce the data required
```

  down to a constant amount.  Salvatore Ingala [posted][ingala cat]
  about a similar mechanism using [OP_CAT][topic op_cat] that he learned
  about from developer Rijndael, who later [provided details][rijndael

>   cat] himself.  Brandon Black [described][black penalty] an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cat].  Brandon Black [described][black penalty] an
```

  alternative type of solution---a penalty-based variant of
  LN-Symmetry---and cited work by Daniel Roberts about it (see next news
  item).

- **Multiparty LN-Symmetry variant with penalties for limiting published updates:**
  Daniel Roberts [posted][roberts sympen] to Delving Bitcoin about
  preventing a malicious channel counterparty (Mallory) from being able
  to delay channel settlement by deliberately broadcasting old states at
  a higher feerate than an honest counterparty (Bob) is paying for
  confirmation of the final state.  In theory, Bob can rebind his final
  state to Mallory's old state and both transactions might confirm in
  the same block, causing her to lose money on fees and Bob to get the
  final state confirmed for the same fee cost he was already willing to
  pay.  However, if Mallory can repeatedly prevent Bob from learning
  about her broadcasts of old states before they get confirmed, she can

>   prevent him from responding until an [HTLCs][topic htlc] in the

Reviewer 2: s/an HTLCs/HTLCs/ ?

  channel expire and Mallory is able to steal funds.

  Roberts proposed a scheme that only allows a channel participant to

>   get a single state confirmed.  If a later state gets confirmed, the

Reviewer 2: nit, the frequent use of "gets confirmed" seems clunky, maybe prefer one of "is confirmed" / "have a state confirmed" / "<party> confirms" etc.

Author: Agree it's clunky and I'll try to fix these.  I don't think it's important here (which is why I'm changing it), but I habitually use that language because confirming something isn't any individual's choice (unless they have 100% hashrate); it's probalistically determined based on overall miner choices.  C.f., I can't add code to Bitcoin Core (because I don't have commit access) but I can _get_ code added to Bitcoin Core (by following the regular process that ends with maintainer merging).

>   Roberts proposed a scheme that only allows a channel participant to
>   get a single state confirmed.  If a later state gets confirmed, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Roberts proposed a scheme that allows a channel participant to
  get only a single state confirmed.  If a later state gets confirmed, the
```
(I'm not including Jon's suggestion here, though I agree with it)

  participant who submitted the final state and any participant who
  didn't submit any states can take the money of any participants who
  submitted outdated states.

  Unfortunately, after publishing the scheme, Roberts discovered and
  self-disclosed a critical flaw in it: similar to the _2x delay
  problem_ described in the previous news item, the last party to sign

>   is able to complete a state that no other party can complete, giving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can complete a state that no other party can complete, giving
```

  the final signer exclusive access to the current final state.  If any
  other party tries to close in the previous state, they will lose
  money if the final signer uses the final state.

  Roberts is investigating alternative approaches, but the topic spurred
  interesting discussion about whether or not adding a penalty mechanism
  to LN-Symmetry is useful.  Gregory Sanders, whose previous

>   proof-of-concept implementation of LN-Symmetry lead him to believe

Reviewer 2: IIUC, "lead" here should be "led" (past tense) or "leads" (present tense)

Author: Thanks.  Don't know how I keep making that mistake.

  that a penalty mechanism is unnecessary (see [Newsletter
  #284][news284 sympen]), noted that the repeated-old-state attack is
  similar to a [replacement cycling attack][topic replacement cycling].
  He finds "this attack pretty weak, since the attack[er] can be driven

>   to negative EV [expected value] pretty easily" even if the defender

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to negative EV [expected value] pretty easily," even if the defender
```
(the comma doesn't need to be part of the actual quote, even though it's within quotation marks)

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think it scans better without the comma.

  attempting to confirm.

## Releases and release candidates

_New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates._

- [Bitcoin Core 28.1rc2][] is a release candidate for a maintenance
  version of the predominant full-node implementation.

- [LDK v0.1.0-beta1][] is a release candidate of this library for
  building LN-enabled wallets and applications.

Note: anyone updating to BDK wallet 1.0.0, as announced in last week's
newsletter, is encouraged to read the project's [migration guide][bdk
migration].

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

> - [Bitcoin Core #28121][] include verbose "reject-details" field in testmempoolaccept response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #28121][] adds a "reject-details" field in testmempoolaccept verbose response
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #336'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/01/10/
name: 2025-01-10-newsletter
slug: 2025-01-10-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Investigating mining pool behavior before fixing a Bitcoin Core bug:**
  Abubakar Sadiq Ismail [posted][ismail double] to Delving Bitcoin about
  a [bug][bitcoin core #21950] discovered in 2021 by Antoine Riard that
  results in nodes reserving 2,000 vbytes in block templates for coinbase
  transactions rather than the intended 1,000 vbytes.  Each template
  could include approximately five additional small transactions if the

>   double reservation was eliminated.  However, that could lead to miners

Reviewer 3: nit:
The number 5 is relative to the size of the small transactions, maybe indicate?

Author: Leaving as-is.  Anyone who cares can divide 1,000 vbytes by five 5 transactions to figure out that we're talking about roughly 200-vbyte transactions.  We add this detail to help people quickly understand the impact of this bug, which is (at worst) five 2-in-2-out transactions; providing them additional information that they can easily figure out for themselves if they care makes it less quick and less useful, IMO.

  who depended on the double reservation producing invalid blocks,
  resulting in a large loss of income.  Ismail analyzed past blocks to

>   determine which mining pools might be at risk.  He noted
>   Ocean.xyz and F2Pool are apparently using non-default settings; he also
>   found an unknown pool or miner creating large coinbase transactions
>   that could lead to them losing money if the Bitcoin Core bug is fixed
>   and they don't change their settings.  We ask
>   anyone who knows the unknown miner to alert them to the situation.

Reviewer 3: The unknown miner is likely not affected. Based on my data, their block template was `1,887,437`, which suggests they may have settings similar to Ocean, i.e., using a lowered `-blockmaxweight` option.

Could add this suggestion below or something like it.

```suggestion
He also noted noting that Ocean.xyz, an unknown pool/miner were creating large coinbase transactions and F2Pool creating optimal block templates (not affected by the bug).
Abubakar noted that If the bug is fixed, any miner relying on the previous behavior could produce an invalid block.
As a result, the discussion is shifting toward fixing the bug by consolidating the reservation in one place while introducing a new startup option `-maxcoinbaseweight=8000`, which is backward compatible.

Normal miners can just start Bitcoin Core with the new `-maxcoinbaseweight=4000`, while pools that need more space like Ocean can start up normally and retain the previous behavior.
```

  Jay Beddict [relayed][beddict double] the message to the Mining-Dev
  mailing list.

- **Contract-level relative timelocks:** Gregory Sanders
  [posted][sanders clrt] to Delving Bitcoin about finding a solution for
  a complication he discovered about a year ago (see [Newsletter
  #284][news284 deltas]) when creating a proof-of-concept implementation
  of [LN-Symmetry][topic eltoo].  In that protocol, each channel state
  can be confirmed onchain, but only the last state confirmed before a
  deadline can distribute the channel funds.  Usually, the parties to

>   a channel would only attempt to confirm the latest state; however, if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a channel would attempt to confirm only the latest state; however, if
```

  cat].  Brandon Black [described][black penalty] an
  alternative type of solution---a penalty-based variant of
  LN-Symmetry---and cited work by Daniel Roberts about it (see next news
  item).

- **Multiparty LN-Symmetry variant with penalties for limiting published updates:**
  Daniel Roberts [posted][roberts sympen] to Delving Bitcoin about
  preventing a malicious channel counterparty (Mallory) from being able
  to delay channel settlement by deliberately broadcasting old states at
  a higher feerate than an honest counterparty (Bob) is paying for
  confirmation of the final state.  In theory, Bob can rebind his final
  state to Mallory's old state and both transactions might confirm in
  the same block, causing her to lose money on fees and Bob to confirm
  the final state for the same fee cost he was already willing to
  pay.  However, if Mallory can repeatedly prevent Bob from learning
  about her broadcasts of old states before they are confirmed, she can
  prevent him from responding until [HTLCs][topic htlc] in the
  channel expire and Mallory is able to steal funds.

  Roberts proposed a scheme that allows a channel participant to

>   only confirm a single state.  If a later state is confirmed, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  confirm only a single state.  If a later state is confirmed, the
```
I'm not sure if I need to justify this suggestion (I made a similar one elsewhere in this document, and in earlier newsletters), but just in case: This may be pedantic, maybe I'm overthinking it, but as written, a channel participant can do only one thing overall, like there's nothing else a channel participant can do. But that's not true, is it? A channel participant can, for example, not confirm any states, just not do anything.

I think the desired meaning is that "only" applies to the number of states; the participant can do lots of other stuff, but if he wants to confirm, it's limited to _one particular_ state. So in a way, "only" and "single" are redundant, but I that's perfectly normal and acceptable.

Author: No need to justify (but thank you for doing so).  For small edits, I don't normally look around the document to see where else I should apply the same edit.  I do seem to have a problem with often putting "only" in the wrong place.

  alternatives considered, pros and cons, and the final decision. This allows
  newcomers to familiarize themselves with the repository’s history. This PR
  adds an ADR template and the first two ADRs: one to remove the `persist`
  module from `bdk_chain` and another to introduce a new `PersistedWallet` type
  that wraps a `BDKWallet`.

<!-- FIXME:harding reminder to add topic entries from last week's newsletter -->
{% include snippets/recap-ad.md when="2025-01-14 15:30" %}
{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md v=2 issues="28121,1592,21950" %}
[bitcoin core 28.1rc2]: https://bitcoincore.org/bin/bitcoin-core-28.1/
[ldk v0.1.0-beta1]: https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/releases/tag/v0.1.0-beta1
[bdk migration]: https://bitcoindevkit.github.io/book-of-bdk/getting-started/migrating/
[ismail double]: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/analyzing-mining-pool-behavior-to-address-bitcoin-cores-double-coinbase-reservation-issue/1351
[beddict double]: https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoinminingdev/c/aM9SDXSMZDs
[sanders clrt]: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/contract-level-relative-timelocks-or-lets-talk-about-ancestry-proofs-and-singletons/1353/

> [news284 deltas]: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/contract-level-relative-timelocks-or-lets-talk-about-ancestry-proofs-and-singletons/1353/12

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[news284 deltas]: /en/newsletters/2024/01/10/#expiry-deltas
```
